React Revamp: Add introduction to react testing lesson (#25670)
TheOdinProject/curriculum: react/react_testing/introduction_to_react_testing.md

### Introduction

> We've learned how to test our vanilla JavaScript applications in a previous section. Testing is indeed a powerful tool that allows us to write maintainable and flexible code. If you've followed along with our lessons so far, we've been using the [Jest](https://jestjs.io/) framework. Since, we're using [Vite](https://vitejs.dev/), we'll switch over to [Vitest](https://vitest.dev/) as our test runner since it integrates nicely with Vite. We'll add more capabilities to our tests using the [React Testing library (RTL)](https://testing-library.com/docs/react-testing-library/intro/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We've learned how to test our vanilla JavaScript applications in a previous section. Testing is a powerful tool that allows us to write maintainable and flexible code. If you've followed along with our lessons, so far we've been using the [Jest](https://jestjs.io/) framework. However, since we're using [Vite](https://vitejs.dev/) we'll switch over to [Vitest](https://vitest.dev/) as our test runner since it integrates nicely with Vite. We'll add more capabilities to our tests using the [React Testing library (RTL)](https://testing-library.com/docs/react-testing-library/intro/).
```

nit regarding `indeed`; feel free to disregard. The use of `indeed` just makes me feel like we were already in a conversation or something. But I'm not natively English either so might be quirky about things as well. Do whatever you feel is right with my suggestions :)

Author: Yeah I can see how `indeed` gives off that vibe. I think "already in a conversation" vibe is a good thing, no? It makes me feel like we are  little closer to the learner. However, I have no preference lol, if you feel strongly about this change, I'll change it.

Reviewer: I don't feel strongly about it, but I might slightly prefer the bold statement `Testing is a powerful tool that allows us to write maintainable and flexible code`.

You did all the heavy lifting here so I really would like to leave it in your hands ☺️

Author: If you prefer it, then be it.

> ### Lesson Overview 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Lesson overview 
```

This section contains a general overview of topics that you will learn in this lesson.

> * Setup a React testing environment.
> * Be able to test UI elements.
> * Understand snapshot tests.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* How to set up a React testing environment.
* How to test UI elements.
* Understanding snapshot tests.
```

> ### Setting Up

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Setting up
```

Follow along [Robin Wieruch's guide on setting up Vitest with RTL](https://www.robinwieruch.de/vitest-react-testing-library/). Once you've completed the setup, let's meet back here.

Phew, that was a lot of setup. But there's one more tiny package to install before we can begin:

~~~
npm install @testing-library/user-event --save-dev
~~~

Now that we have everything we need, let's briefly go over what some of those packages do. We'll primarily focus on the `@testing-library` packages. 

* `@testing-library/react` will give us access to useful functions like `render` which we'll demonstrate later on.

* `@testing-library/jest-dom` includes some handy custom matchers (assertive functions) like `toBeInTheDocument` and more. (complete list on [jest-dom's github](https://github.com/testing-library/jest-dom)). Jest already has a lot of matchers so this package is not compulsory to use. 

* <span id="user-event">`@testing-library/user-event` provides the `userEvent` API that simulates user interactions with the webpage.</span> Alternatively, we could import the `fireEvent` API from `@testing-library/react`. 

>   > _Note: `fireEvent` is an inferior counterpart to `userEvent` and `userEvent` should always be preferred in practice._

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  <div class="lesson-note" markdown="1">

  `fireEvent` is an inferior counterpart to `userEvent` and `userEvent` should always be preferred in practice._

  </div>
```

We have this fancy note syntax

> ### Our First Query

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Our first query
```

import { render, screen } from "@testing-library/react";
import App from "./App";

describe("App component", () => {
  it("renders correct heading", () => {
    render(<App />);
    expect(screen.getByRole("heading").textContent).toMatch(/our first test/i);
  });
});

~~~

Execute `npm test App.test.js` on the terminal and you'll see that test pass. `getByRole` is just one of the dozen query methods that we could've used. Essentially, queries are classified into three types: `getBy`, `queryBy` and `findBy`. Go through [the React Testing Library docs page about queries](https://testing-library.com/docs/queries/about/). Pay extra attention to the "Types of Queries" and "Priority" section. 

<span id="by-role-methods">As stated by the React Testing Library docs, `ByRole` methods are the favored methods for querying, especially when paired with the `name` option. For example, we could improve the specificity of the above query like so: `getByRole("heading", { name: "Our First Test" })`. Queries that are done through `ByRole` ensure that our UI is accessible to everyone no matter what mode they use to navigate the webpage (i.e mouse or assistive technologies).</span>

> ### Simulating User Events

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Simulating user events
```

Notice that the callback function for the second test is asynchronous. This is because `user.click()` simulates the asynchronous nature of user interaction, which is now supported by the latest version of the testing library's user-event APIs. 
As of [version 14.0.0](https://github.com/testing-library/user-event/releases/tag/v14.0.0), the user-event APIs have been updated to be asynchronous. It's worth noting that some examples from other resources or tutorials might still use the synchronous `userEvent.click()` method

~~~javascript
// This is the old approach of using userEvent.
it("renders radical rhinos after button click", () => {
  render(<App />);
  const button = screen.getByRole("button", { name: "Click Me" });

  userEvent.click(button);

  expect(screen.getByRole("heading").textContent).toMatch(/radical rhinos/i);
});
~~~

The `setup()` is internally triggered here. This is still supported by React Testing Library to ease the transition from v13 to v14.

> ### What are Snapshots?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### What are snapshots?
```

The other issue with snapshots is false negatives. Even the most insignificant of changes compel the test to fail. Fixing punctuation? Snapshot will fail. Replacing an HTML tag to a more semantic one? Snapshot will fail. This might cause us to lose our confidence in the test suite altogether. Snapshots aren't inherently bad; they do serve a purpose. But it's beneficial to understand when to snapshot, and when not to snapshot. 

### Assignment

<div class="lesson-content__panel" markdown="1">

1. Take a glance at all of the available query methods on [the React Testing Library's cheatsheet page](https://testing-library.com/docs/dom-testing-library/cheatsheet/). There's no need to use them all, but it's optimal to employ a specific method for a specific query. If none of the query methods suffice, there's an option to use test ids. Learn about test ids on [the React Testing Library's test id docs](https://testing-library.com/docs/queries/bytestid/).

2. Read [the userEvent API docs](https://testing-library.com/docs/user-event/intro) to get a feel of how to achieve user simulation. 

> 3. This article on the [Pros and Cons of Snapshot Tests](https://tsh.io/blog/pros-and-cons-of-jest-snapshot-tests/) goes in depth regarding the advantages and disadvantages of snapshot testing. Even though the articles uses Jest, the concepts should be transferrable. And this one, [Snapshot Testing: Benefits and Drawbacks](https://www.sitepen.com/blog/snapshot-testing-benefits-and-drawbacks), does an excellent job of explaining what is snapshot testing in programming in general.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. This article on the [Pros and Cons of Snapshot Tests](https://tsh.io/blog/pros-and-cons-of-jest-snapshot-tests/) goes in depth regarding the advantages and disadvantages of snapshot testing. Even though the articles uses Jest, the concepts should be transferrable. And this one, [Snapshot Testing: Benefits and Drawbacks](https://www.sitepen.com/blog/snapshot-testing-benefits-and-drawbacks), does an excellent job of explaining what snapshot testing is for programming in general.
```

</div>

### Knowledge Check 

This section contains questions for you to check your understanding of this lesson on your own. If you’re having trouble answering a question, click it and review the material it links to.

* [What packages are required for React testing?](#setting-up)
* [What is the significance of the user-event package?](#user-event)
* [What does the `render` method do?](https://testing-library.com/docs/react-testing-library/api/#render)
* [What is the most preferred method for querying?](#by-role-methods)
* [How would you test for a click event with `userEvent`?](#simulating-user-events)
* [What is the advantage of snapshot tests?](#advantage-snapshot-tests)
* [What are the disadvantages of snapshot tests?](#disadvantage-snapshot-tests)

### Additional Resources

This section contains helpful links to other content. It isn't required, so consider it supplemental.

> - This [tutorial on Testing React Apps by Academind](https://academind.com/tutorials/testing-react-apps) is a great overview of what you've learned. It goes into testing async code and callbacks which we haven't covered yet. Though you should be able to follow along using your previous knowledge.
> 
> - This [Intro to React Testing Library video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YQLn7ycfzEo) for a hands-on tutorial.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- This [tutorial on Testing React Apps by Academind](https://academind.com/tutorials/testing-react-apps) is a great overview of what you've learned. It goes into testing async code and callbacks which we haven't covered yet. Though you should be able to follow along using your previous knowledge.
- This [Intro to React Testing Library video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YQLn7ycfzEo) for a hands-on tutorial.
```

### Introduction

We've learned how to test our vanilla JavaScript applications in a previous section. Testing is a powerful tool that allows us to write maintainable and flexible code. If you've followed along with our lessons, so far we've been using the [Jest](https://jestjs.io/) framework. However, since we're using [Vite](https://vitejs.dev/) we'll switch over to [Vitest](https://vitest.dev/) as our test runner since it integrates nicely with Vite. We'll add more capabilities to our tests using the [React Testing library (RTL)](https://testing-library.com/docs/react-testing-library/intro/).

### Lesson overview 

This section contains a general overview of topics that you will learn in this lesson.

* How to set up a React testing environment.
* How to test UI elements.
* Understanding snapshot tests.

> ### Setting up

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Setting up Vitest
```

Not sure if you'd like this to be more descriptive perhaps?

Author: We're actually setting up Vitest and React Testing Library here

Reviewer: what would you suggest? Leave it as is `Setting up` 

or:

`Setting up Vitest and React Testing Library` ?

Author: I think `Setting up a React testing environment` will be better (and more future proof). Thought?

Reviewer: I agree fully!
